---
title: Why I Will Never Write With AI
url: https://adamcaudill.com/2025/12/27/why-i-will-never-write-with-ai/?utm_source=atom_feed
source: Adam Caudill
date: 2025-12-27
fetch_date: 2025-12-28T03:38:35.591771
---

# Why I Will Never Write With AI

# [Adam Caudill](https://adamcaudill.com/)

* [Exposera](https://exposera.com/u/adamcaudill "Exposera")

*Security Leader, Researcher, Developer, Writer, & Photographer*

* [Home](https://adamcaudill.com/)
* [Blog](https://adamcaudill.com/blog/)
* [Research](https://adamcaudill.com/research/)
* [Speaking](https://adamcaudill.com/speaking/)
* [Photography](https://adamcaudill.com/photography/)
* [Writing](https://adamcaudill.com/writing/)
* [About](https://adamcaudill.com/about/)

# Why I Will Never Write With AI

Today
|
12 minute read
|
[News](https://adamcaudill.com/categories/news)

Table of Contents

1. [Writing as Creation](#writing-as-creation)
2. [Why I Started Writing](#why-i-started-writing)
3. [AI as a Cheat-code](#ai-as-a-cheat-code)
4. [The Journey Matters](#the-journey-matters)
5. [Everyone is Doing It](#everyone-is-doing-it)
6. [Intellectual Integrity](#intellectual-integrity)

Every person has rules that they apply to themself, red lines that they won’t cross. For me, signing my name to anything generated by AI is one of those. I’d like to take a few minutes to talk about why.

I spend a lot of time writing. Some is on this site, though much more of my work isn’t public, is published elsewhere, not yet published, or ghost written for others. On this site, according to the [stats](https://adamcaudill.com/stats/), I’ve spent at least *864 hours* writing the content you see here. That’s over a month of continuous writing. That’s over a month of my life dedicated to sharing information and working to prompt further discussion and contemplation. Yet I never have, nor ever will, sign my name to anything written with AI[1](#fn:1).

For some readers, this will seem to be a given due to objections[2](#fn:2) to generative AI. After all, generative AI may be the most hated technology since the industrial revolution[3](#fn:3). For others, they focus on benefits and the ability to “create” more content in less time, or overcome physical limitations[4](#fn:4), or write in languages they haven’t mastered, or any of a thousand other reasons they could cite. This essay isn’t about either of those positions.

In fact, this article isn’t truly about AI at all. While it does center on generative AI, it’s not the AI that matters here. Allow me to explain.

## Writing as Creation [#](#writing-as-creation)

Whether one writes to document a system, answer a question, share experiences, or tell a story, it’s a form of art. Conveying knowledge and understanding to another through crafted prose and thoughtful constructs, this is both an art and a critical skill. For those of us that work in the technology industry, our ability to clearly and effectively convey information is vital to our success. For those that write to tell stories, true or fiction, they raise this art higher, to convey emotions.

What starts as a simple effort to express a thought or idea becomes a craft with experience, and an art as skill grows. Each word selected to achieve the desired effect. Intent laden and time consuming to do well (or well enough, as in my case[5](#fn:5)), *good* writing requires more than a catalog of words and a working understanding of a language. It requires an understanding of the reader, their experiences, their knowledge, their perspective. The best writers use their knowledge to write for not a single reader, but many readers, each with different backgrounds. They blend all this carefully, thoughtfully, and with exacting detail.

When you encounter anything from a technical analysis to a fictional tale, if you walked away understanding more than you did before, it’s because of that careful intent. And intent is what this article is actually about.

## Why I Started Writing [#](#why-i-started-writing)

Starting when I was frequently answering programming questions in forums as a teenager, providing detailed and lengthy answers to complex questions, it was clear that the single most valuable skill I could develop wasn’t memoizing more development trivia or adding more programming languages, it was writing. Clear, careful, thoughtful, and targeted communication is the difference between building a career and being sidelined. Ensuring that others understand exactly what you need them to understand[6](#fn:6) is the single most important skill anyone can develop. Without that, other skills are far less useful.

I did not start writing for the sake of writing, or for the sake of creating, but as an effort to develop a critical skill. Many millions of words later, this skill has served me well, and is one that I continue to invest in.

In the nearly 1,000 hours that I have spent writing content for this site, it has never been part of my income, it has never paid a single bill. Essays such as this, are instead a gift, given freely to readers, in hopes that it will spark discussion or thought. The only benefit I receive for the hours invested is an opportunity to learn new things through the research required, and some slow polishing of the skills I’ve developed for conveying information and ideas.

## AI as a Cheat-code [#](#ai-as-a-cheat-code)

For many readers, the letters `iddqd` will be immediately recognisable, the ultimate cheat code for Doom. Full health, no damage. Or maybe `dnstuff` was your ultimate cheat; granting all keys, weapons, and ammo in Duke Nukem 3D. A few keystrokes and the challenge was gone. You could play through the game quickly, easily, and without a worry.

When the game was over though, nothing was accomplished. There was nothing to be proud of. No skill was improved. No knowledge gained. It was done, but a meaningless and empty event.

In the mid to late 1990s, I spent some time making custom maps for both of these games, this included countless tweaks, hundreds of tests, and hour upon hour of playing the same levels over and over. While working on the maps it made perfect sense to use the cheat codes. There was a time and place where the point wasn’t the journey, but getting to the end to achieve something else.

AI, for many, is a cheat code. It’s a way to move through a task quickly, to get to the end without investing the level of time, energy, effort, or thought otherwise needed.

There are times, in my opinion, that using a cheat code makes sense. You need to get around something that would take time, you wouldn’t get anything useful from the journey, and it’s in the way of getting to something more important.

There are other times that using a cheat code only cheats yourself. You miss out on the journey, the research, the knowledge, the experience. Generative AI has proven itself to be a highly effective cheat code for many, especially when it comes to writing. A person can spend 30 seconds writing a prompt, and they get a 1,500 word essay. An essay devoid of intent. An experience devoid of benefit.

## The Journey Matters [#](#the-journey-matters)

If you’ll indulge me, I’ll continue with the cheat code analogy.

Some games can provide deep immersion, great acting, compelling stories, and journeys that matter far more than the destination. A few examples, for me, have been Expedition 33, Baldur’s Gate 3, Cyberpunk 2077, and Alan Wake – all of these *can* provide a remarkable journey when you invest the time and effort into them. But, there’s a better example: MyHouse.wad[7](#fn:7). This appears to be a custom map for Doom, one that is superficially simple. However, through exploration, there is vastly more to be found than what appears on the surface. In reality, it’s an expansive experience that goes beyond the carefully crafted in-game journey.

I use MyHouse.wad as an example here, as it’s a perfect analogy. If you take the easy route and complete the map quickly, if you judge the game by what you see on the surface, you miss a journey that will stay with you for weeks. Worse, you’d have no idea what you had missed. Missing out and not even knowing it simply adds insult to injury.

Some time ago, I wrote an article about how [...